Now to come to an end,
there are a couple of nice methods you have related to promises which sometimes can be handy.
Let's say you have multiple promises
which you want to orchestrate in a certain way, which means you want to make sure that they are executed
together in a certain way.
Now we are executing two promises here,
get position and set timer, in this case after each other
and for example if get position fails, set timer will not be executed,
it will be skipped.
Now let me go to the end of this file here and in there,
let's say I have the same promises,
get position and set timer, one second,
and I want to make sure that only one of them executes and that's the one which is faster. Of course
for this dummy example,
you could argue if it makes sense to either get the user position or to wait for some timer but actually
you could say yes it makes sense,
I want to wait for one second and if I haven't gotten the position by then, then I want to do something
else.
Sure you could achieve the same by setting a timeout in the configuration object of get current position
but if we didn't have that option or we had some other reasons to do it differently,
well then here what we can do,
we have our two promises here and now we can use Promise with a capital P,
so the promise constructor function in the end and instead of constructing it, we can call a method, a static
method on this promise constructor function or on this promise class if you will
and there we have the race method.
Now the race method takes an array of promises, so of get position and set timer for example.
So two promises or functions that yield promises are passed into race and then race itself also returns
a promise, a promise with the result of the fastest promise you pass to it and you could build a normal
then catch chain here based on race, it returns a normal promise,
the only special thing is that the data returns will be the result of the fastest promise here.
They will both be kicked off at the same time and the one which first finishes will then be handled
by the subsequent
then catch promise chain.
So here, I get back some data and we can console log that data here and here for example, if I save that
and I reload,
you see I get asked here and since I didn't even reply, I get done here which is the result of my timer
because that one second timer executed faster than get position and if I then do click block here, nothing
happens with that because race only cared about the fastest promise,
so in this case, this was the winning promise.
On the other hand if I reload and I click block super fast, we see now this promise failed and we don't
see done because now the result of the second promise was discarded and that first one finished instead.
Now it's worth noting that the other promise which didn't win is not cancelled, its results just ignored
but for HTTP requests, it might be important to know that the request is still being sent, its result is
just ignored.
So race can be useful if you're only interested in one of the two conditions and you then want to use the
result of that promise and ignore the other one.
Sometimes you also have code that only should execute after a couple of promises have finished and
of course you can achieve that by chaining multiple then blocks or by using async await,
for example here this code only executes after these two promises have finished but an alternative also
is that you use promise all, here you also pass in an array of promises and I'll go with the same promises
as before and now here, you'll then get a normal promise as a result but the data of that promise will
be the combined data of your other promises.
So here I got my promise data and if we log that, you'll see that this will actually be the combination
of all the data the individual promises resolved.
Now
if I reload here and I click allow,
you see this is the result I get.
Now this first done call here was from promise race,
so ignore that, this here coming from line 64,
that is from promise all
and as you see promise data is an array where you have the data returned by each promise in the position
of that promise
when you passed it to promise all.
So here, we had get position first and set timer second,
therefore in the data array we get back here, we have the result of get position as a first argument
and the result of set timer as a second argument.
So this can be useful if you want to wait for all promises to finish before you then want to use the
combine data and we could have rewritten this code for example with promise all. Of course you can also
do some operation which is not depending on the promise data at all
in case you just wanted to wait for a couple of things to finish before you then execute some other
code, that's where promise all can shine.
Important for promise all, if I reload here and I block this, then I get an error here
and only that. So if one of the promises fails, is rejected, then the other promise is not executed and
we're not waiting for all to resolve or all to reject
instead we're waiting for all to resolve but for rejections, we're not waiting for all to be rejected,
instead
if one of them is rejected, this is cancelled and we just get the error which we could handle with a
catch block of course.
So it's all resolved or at least one rejected.
If you want to wait for all resolved or all rejected and you might have such scenarios where you just
worry about have all succeeded or have all failed, then you also have promise.all settled.
Now that's really new, all settled
also takes an array of promises,
like this here, just one array though
and then here you also have a then block which will also give you an array of the promise data
but if I now comment this out so that we only have this going on,
if I comment this out and i reload, if I now click block, you'll see I actually get an array with a different
kind of data, with objects where we see the output for the first promise,
it was rejected and the output of the second promise, it was done.
If I reload and I click allow, we wait for all of that to happen, to get the position, for the timer to expire
and thereafter I get an object again with the descriptions
but now also with the values,
so for them being resolved, they get the concrete values here, with the position and with the text of
dummy for the timer.
So we get a little bit of a different data, still an array but an object that describes what the promise
did and the interesting thing here is that now since you got this detailed description, you got more
flexibility.
It does not cancel the execution of other promises if one of them is rejected, instead it still completes
or looks at all of them and then gives you a detailed summary of which promise failed and which promise
succeeded so that you can use this knowledge here
and if I block this, we still are able to use the response of the timer for example.
This is not cancelled and that's then different to all where if one of them failed, we cancel,
here we don't do that,
we always wait for all promises to be finished and then we get that detailed report
if you want to call it like this.